[extension-docs] Add manifest key pages: author, automation, CSP, input_component (#3837)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/content_security_policy/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Manifest - Content Security Policy"
date: 2022-10-03
updated: 2022-10-03
description: Reference documentation for the content security policy properties of manifest.json.
---

> An optional Manifest key defining restrictions on the sources, scripts, and objects able to be used by an extension. Within this manifest key, separate optional policies can be defined for both extension pages and sandboxed extension pages.

Reviewer: +1 to 'manifest' as a common noun.

The "extension pages" policy applies to page and worker contexts in the extension. This would include the extension popup, background worker, and tabs with html pages or iframes that were opened by the extension. The sandbox policy applies to all pages specified as a [sandbox page](/docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/sandbox/) in the manifest.

## Default Policy

If the [content security policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) is not defined by the user in the manifest, the default properties will be used for both extension pages and sandboxed extension pages.   
These defaults are equivalent to specifying the following policies in your manifest:

> ```json

Reviewer: Why do extension developers need to know where the defaults are defined in the source code?

> ```json

Reviewer 2: External devs don't, but we do in order to keep this information up to date.

{
  // ...
  "content_security_policy": {
    "extension_pages": "script-src 'self'; object-src 'self';",
    "sandbox": "sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; child-src 'self';
"
  }
  // ...
}
```

In this case, the extension will only load local scripts and objects from its own packaged resources. WebAssembly will be disabled, and the extension will not run in-line Javascript or be able to evaluate strings as executable code. If a sandbox page is added, it will have more relaxed permissions for evaluating scripts from outside the extension.

## Minimum and customized Content Security Policies

Developers may add or remove rules for their extension, or use the minimum required content  security policy, to fit the needs of their project. 

### Extension Pages Policy

The minimum allowable content security policy for extension pages is as follows:

> ```json

Reviewer: How is this information helpful to extension developers?

> ```json

Reviewer 2: It's not, but it _is_ useful to us when maintaining this documentation. I used a [Nunjucks comment](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html#comments) so that this note wouldn't even be emitted in a comment tag in the final output.

...
"content_security_policy": {
    "extension_pages": "script-src 'self' 'wasm-unsafe-eval'; object-src 'self';"
}
...
```

> Developers can then add further restrictions as needed, such as disabling WebAssembly, and adding specific security policies to only allow scripts and objects from certain domains and subdomains.  
> enable potentially unsafe practices such as the use of eval() to run code.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what was intended by the line "enable potentially unsafe practices such as the use of eval() to run code." 

I'm inclined to say that it's implicit that you can add restrictions beyond what the minimum requires.

````suggestion
The `extension_pages` policy cannot be relaxed beyond this minimum value. In other words, developers cannot add the `'unsafe-eval'` expression to the `script-src` directive in order to call `eval()` in extension page or worker contexts. Attempting to load an extension with such a CSP will cause Chrome to throw the following error at install time:

```
'content_security_policy.extension_pages': Insecure CSP value "'unsafe-eval'" in directive 'script-src'.
```
````

### Sandbox Pages Policy

The default content security policy for sandbox pages is as follows:

```json

> ...
> "content_security_policy": {
>     "sandbox": sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; child-src 'self';
> }
> ...

Reviewer 2: To help ease the reader's understanding, this block should use the same formatting as previously seen on this page.

The value of the "sandbox" key was missing quotation marks.

```suggestion
{
  // ...
  "content_security_policy": {
    "sandbox": "sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; child-src 'self';"
  }  
  // ...
}
```

```

> The default policy for sandboxed pages is much more lenient than with extension pages, as the sandbox page does not have access to extension APIs, or direct access to non-sandboxed pages. The sandbox content security policy can only be further restricted from its default state.

Reviewer 2: > The sandbox content security policy can only be further restricted from its default state.

I don't think that's true – or at least that's not the intent. Based on the [current proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1m82BcCPWDTEzy1R6gbCbUwe-ma-bCTTF_JwRnt3O_IA/edit#heading=h.vcfipw3kivcl) being discussed in [WECG #98](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/98#issuecomment-1286233170), sandboxed pages do not have a minimum CSP. 

Developers can relax the policy by declaring directives a directive that contains previously undeclared sources. For example, if we wanted to allow scripts from app.example.com, we could update our `sandbox` policy like so:

```diff
-    "sandbox": "sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; child-src 'self';"
+    "sandbox": "sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' app.example.com; child-src 'self';"
```

Base on this, I think the following tweaks make the passage a bit more accurate.

```suggestion
The default policy for sandboxed pages is much more lenient than with extension pages, as the sandbox page does not have access to extension APIs, or direct access to non-sandboxed pages. The sandbox content security policy can be customized as desired.
```

## Minimum and customized Content Security Policies

Developers may add or remove rules for their extension, or use the minimum required content  security policy, to fit the needs of their project. 

### Extension Pages Policy

Chrome enforces a minimum content security policy for extension pages. It is equivalent to specifying the following policy in your manifest:

{# This is statically defined in Chromium source. 
- https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:extensions/common/manifest_handlers/csp_info.cc?q=kMinimumMV3CSP
#}
```json
{
  // ...
  "content_security_policy": {
    "extension_pages": "script-src 'self' 'wasm-unsafe-eval'; object-src 'self';"
  }
  // ...
}
```

The `extension_pages` policy cannot be relaxed beyond this minimum value. In other words, developers cannot add the `'unsafe-eval'` expression to the `script-src` directive in order to call `eval()` in extension page or worker contexts. Attempting to load an extension with such a CSP will cause Chrome to throw the following error at install time:

```json
'content_security_policy.extension_pages': Insecure CSP value "'unsafe-eval'" in directive 'script-src'.
```
### Sandbox Pages Policy

> The default content security policy for sandbox pages is as follows:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   // ...
>   "content_security_policy": {
>     "sandbox": "sandbox allow-scripts allow-forms allow-popups allow-modals; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; child-src 'self';"
>   }  
>   // ...
> }
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: This section appears nested under the "Minimum and customized Content Security Policies" heading, so I don't think we need to include the default content security policy here again.

```suggestion
```
